Let's apply some of the concepts we learned to enable,
disable, and expose one or more endpoints in our demo app.
In this demo, we'll practice what we learned about enabling,
disabling, and exposing endpoints.
Go ahead and navigate to the src, main,
resources and open up the application.properties.
The property which controls which endpoints are exposed is
currently set to an asterisk from our previous demo.
Now remember,
this means that we're exposing all endpoints and also remember
that this isn't a recommended practice and we only did this to
make things easier in our demo.
Let's go ahead and tidy things up a bit and only
expose a small set of endpoints.
Go ahead and delete the asterisks and change the value to a
comma-separated list of IDs that we want to expose.
So we'll change that to beans, metrics, info, health, loggers.
Now even though we've exposed the loggers endpoint,
let's go ahead and disable it for demonstration purposes to see that the
endpoint must be both enabled and exposed to be consumable.
Return to a new line and set the property management.endpoint and
make sure this is singular and doesn't contain an S,
it's not endpoints, .loggers .enabled and then equals false.
Alright, that's all the configuration we've got.
Let's start up the application and check things out.
Go ahead and navigate to the main application class,
right-click on it, and go to Run.
Once the application is started,
fire up a browser and visit localhost:8080/actuator/beans.
Great.
We've got a response with all the information about the beans
that are running in the application context.
Now remember, all endpoints, except shutdown, are enabled by default.
So by exposing the already enabled endpoint, we met the criteria to consume it.
That is, it was enabled and exposed.
Let's try another one of the built-in endpoints that's enabled by default,
but was not in our list of exposed endpoints.
In the address bar, change the beans to configprops and hit Enter.
As expected,
we get back a 404 not found response since even though the endpoint was enabled,
it wasn't exposed.
Lastly, let's try the loggers endpoint.
Remember that we exposed the loggers endpoint, but we explicitly disabled it.
In the address bar, change configprops to loggers and hit Enter. As expected, we also get a 404 since the endpoint was exposed, but not enabled.